So, what are you putting in your body?
>> Testosterone is one thing. Since my 30s,
I'm doing TRT. I'm taking GP1 once
because I'm kind of stress eater. Like,
I'm taking Daga, a hormone like
substance. I do one medical drug for
sleep, which is called Q Vivic. I have
not tried any
recreational drug except of coffee.
Yeah. And [music] psychedelics. But
that's another topic for
>> get to that in a sec. But
[music] Christian Angermier, welcome to
Interesting Times.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> So recently, you probably heard about
this, the Pope put out an encyclical, a
big document [music] on artificial
intelligence. And one of the most
striking passages [music] in that
document was a critique of what the pope
called transhumanism, which [music] is
basically you could define as the idea
that a lot of the fundamental
constraints [music] that human beings
face, aging, illness, mental suffering,
maybe even mortality itself are things
that [music] eventually technology,
drugs, science can help us overcome.
And I think that that made me want to
talk to you because you're an advocate
[music] of what you call the next human
agenda, which includes enhancing human
athletic performance, using [music]
psychedelics to alter human
consciousness, and figuring out just
[music] maybe how to extend the human
lifespan. And I'm interested in all this
practically, just how it might change
the world. I'm also personally
interested in [music] figuring out where
I draw the line between breakthroughs
that make us healthier and fitter and
breakthroughs where I might be [music]
on the Pope's more skeptical side. So
tell me first, what is the next human
agenda and how would you define your own
philosophy? I used to actually use the
word transhumanism and then I realized
that people have a negative reaction and
I think because they also wrongly not
understand it but I think the
association is and again I haven't read
the encyclical yet so I want to but my
gut feeling is that he falls sort of in
the same trap that transhumanism makes
people think oh we're humans now and
then we're something else because that's
obviously the Latin word trans and and
that creates a counter reaction which I
understand because that's not what I
want to say. So I actually started using
the word which is now also very funny
because like it's used in another funny
context the maxing like but it's kind of
like human maximization it's just like I
don't think we should become something
different because I think humans are
awesome but like I think we can maximize
the potential which is already in us. So
to your question, what we define as next
human agenda is like using technology,
science and progress to really maximize
both our physical appearance uh our life
because it can also be something outside
of us like I think for example AI and
robotics will definitely minimize the
need for human labor. So we in a
positive way a lot of people are
frightened by that but if you think it
through I think it can be a very sort of
much more human society actually because
the question is are we really meant to
work like 10 hours a day is this really
human like isn't human be more like with
friends and sort of being a social sort
of animal so anyway so in many ways I
think technology will both help us
explore
and sort of yeah improve again improve
sounds and I just like add on yeah on
our body and mind and on the world sort
of around us. So in short I'm a very
optimistic person where science and
technology leads us.
>> So give me just a couple examples of the
kinds of things that you're invested in
or involved in in this space and then
we'll drill down into some of the
subjects.
>> Well the favorite one is always
psychedelics. Like that's what I I think
is like on on a narrow with a narrow few
they have the potential to really change
the way how we treat mental health
issues which already is huge and it's
only growing because I think humans are
very anti-change and we going we will
actually in the next 10 years go through
the biggest change humanity in the
shortest period of time had ever had
ever to do it and and this will create a
lot of fear and I think psychedelics can
actually help sort of really guide
people or or help them adjust humanity
to sort of a radically different future.
So psychedelics is one thing. Um I
started two uh very successful longevity
companies. So where we work really in
slowing down and ultimately reversing of
what we colloally call aging which is
not a single disease but like is is more
complex. We're doing uh a lot in AI and
robotics. we're doing but also a lot in
sports. Why sports? Because I believe
>> again I'm deeply believe I cannot see
differently like that AI and robotics
will massively reduce the need for human
labor. Uh I I can totally see a very
positive society because I think that
sort of attachment we have to we must
have a job is kind of a narrative. Yes,
we we gave it to ourselves as humanity
over the last like I don't know 8,000
years because it was holding society
together. But if you go to a individual
factory worker in China and would say
hey can you do you want to have kind of
the same quality of life and half of the
work this person will say yeah like
tomorrow
>> and then play becomes more important
that
>> play sport entertainment social stuff I
would say if I look at our of our
spectrum we have three tech and biotech
areas it's biotech with a focus on
longevity and mental health then we do a
lot of fintech and crypto and then deep
tech which is space techch AI robotics
that kind of stuff and then we have the
two flip sides uh or the two other sides
like the physical ones which is sports,
entertainment and hospitality and we
also do a bit in natural resources
mostly in those natural resources which
are sort of used then for AI from
uranium because I believe AI will only
increase the the need for power to
copper and stuff like that.
>> All right. So let's talk about what I
think is the highest profile way that
listeners might have encountered what
you're working on recently and this is
the enhanced games which is a mildly
controversial let's say uh sports
competition build as an alternative to
to the Olympics and it encourages the
use of legal performance-enhancing drugs
which obviously the Olympics do not. The
inaugural games happened last month in
Las Vegas. Um, and we're going to talk
about what happened there. But first,
just tell me the big vision and the
pitch for the enhanced games.
>> You said it pretty well like the games
itself are a sporting event which uh uh
at the beginning had sort of similar or
hasn't will always have similar uh
events like the Olympics. We started
with swimming, running uh and
weightlifting. and with the big
difference that we allow I want to
phrase it even better medically approved
performance-enhancing drugs. So my
simple view is that neither I should be
the arbiter what is allowed and not nor
should be water the world antid-doping
agency and the IOC together. Uh we have
actually an amazing agency which uh is
very neutral which is very scientific uh
and that's the FDA. Um so what we do at
the enhanced game is we say everything
which is FDA approved is fair game. Uh
everything which is not FDA approved is
not allowed as well. So that's our rule.
>> Can you can you give an example just for
people who know about this in the most
general steroids and baseball kind of
way of what's something that falls on
the approved side and what's something
that falls on the non-approved side.
>> So what we allow testosterone? Yeah.
Testosterone is is like is medically
approved but you do it under medical
supervision with our doctors together
because we really prioritize health not
like rules like or or or random rules
like the the IOC. So if you want to be
an athlete in that Olympic world or a
soccer player whatever you sign a
personal contract and say look I adhere
to the water list.
>> What sorry what is water?
>> Oh sorry water is world anti-doping
agency. Okay. So what we are saying is
we have a different rule set and we just
have a different arbiter which in our
case is the FDA or you also have to
stick to their rules. You cannot take
crystal math in the enhanced games but
you can take testosterone. That's why
when a lot of people call us a doping
games it's it's nonsensical because like
in our case they don't break rules
because we have a different rule set.
They adhere to to to our rule set
>> but you but you paid them too, right?
Like that's the other
>> and [clears throat] that's the real
reason the real reason why the IOC hates
us. Is not the doping.
>> I'm sure that they hate you. I hate
>> but it's not the doping. It's like they
treat the athletes like props, like
tools, but the heart and soul of the
sports are the athletes. Yeah. And not
paying them is is perverse. Like it's
it's just like not right. Morally not
right. Yeah. And the day after we made
that point and said we're paying them in
a proper way, uh the IOC president was
literally asked if she believes in
athletes should get paid and she in the
most coldarted way she was just like
>> I don't believe in paying athletes. Um
and I come from a a small country. I
came came from a sport that doesn't
necessarily pay athletes very well and I
still don't believe we should be paying
athletes at the Olympic Games.
>> I was like wow. So let's talk So you
said the day after. Let's talk about the
day after and what actually happened at
the games and the narrative around it,
which I'm sure that you have some strong
feelings on, right? But basically, one
athlete uh on performance-enhancing
drugs broke a world record.
>> STROKE FOR STROKE. PROUD COL.
[screaming]
>> Nobody performed like secretariat at the
Belmont relative to other athletes.
three athletes who competed clean, I
think, won won their events. And that
has led a lot of people to say, "Well,
this was a flop because for it to
succeed, you would have to show that you
were actually radically enhancing human
athletic performance." And it seems like
you didn't.
>> We did. But like I I acknowledge, by the
way, this again, I love to talk about
controversy. By the way, the great thing
is with a sports event, every single
controversy is good. Like we we we we
measured the days the event itself and
the days around it and we reached more
than 1 billion original people which is
an insane number like yeah uh like 1/8
of the world population have watched a
clip not the whole thing but a clip
something from the enhanced games which
I think is four first time sporting
event is insane. So
actually to finish the answer what you
said what you questioned before and
that's then the the answer also for this
one for the controversy with was it a
flop or not is like we had a very mixed
group of athletes and we wanted it like
that but we didn't maybe perfectly
communicate that because we had kind of
three groups of athletes. We had natural
ones which I wanted like Hunter
Armstrong a swimmer to kind of a little
bit poke it like look show us your
cards. Do you really want to expel them?
So I wanted that group. So then the
second group we had was uh was uh a
little bit older athletes in their 30s.
They were never out to break world
records. They were actually racing
against themselves. But that is I think
in the big
>> to show resilience.
>> Well and and no and show that we can
reverse time because like that is in
what we want to discuss here the big
topic of enhancements like
>> for you and me. Yeah. And everybody in
this building, nobody here with the best
enhancements in the world will ever
break a world record. Think about it.
Breaking a world record is so elusive.
If you break a world record, that means
you're better than 8 billion people. But
like for you and me, much more relatable
is to say, "Wow, there is an athlete in
their 30s or hopefully next year I want
to have some athletes in their 40s and
50s and they are better than they had
been in their prime." And take Megan
Romano, mid-30s.
>> What kind of athletes are swimming?
>> Yeah. Um, and she was like very sort of
famous in swimming in America, the
American darling. And she was out there
to break her own best time, which made
her famous like 12 and a half years ago.
And she did it. Think about what that
tells you. Like a 35year-old with
enhancements is a better version of
themselves than they were at the peak of
their career 12 and a half years ago.
>> What was she taking just general or
>> hormones like? So it's it's so we can
also talk about like the details why we
not we're thinking about it why why
we're not doing a recipe for
>> you're not okay so you're not disclosing
exactly
>> we did a full we did a we did the groups
of drugs athletes are taking
>> okay
>> but not for each athlete
>> but the third group is so first group is
uh natural athletes second group is
>> older athletes
>> older athletes again older is like 35
>> younger younger than me
>> but four four athletes out of their
prime retired and then the third one
>> is uh is athletic Christian who is in
his prime. Yeah. One of the best
swimmers in the world and he got
enhanced and he broke the world record.
So these are the three categories and
what we were not good hindsight is to
really message that and say look this is
now a race where a world record can be
broken because there is a prime athlete
>> in his prime and he's in.
>> So in a sense then this this for those
of us who are not Olympic level athletes
are likely to become it. becomes a
larger advertisement for a world where
you
>> normalize testosterone replacement and
other things across the life cycle as
just sort of what a normal person does.
Is that the goal?
>> Exactly. So we want to first of all
break the taboo and show that
enhancements
if and when done medically with medical
substances with a doctor together can be
very positive for you and that they can
be very positive for everybody. So, and
then I want to entice people to think
about it like what is the best version
of yourself? And that by the way can be
a subjective answer. You might say
you're fine. This is the best version of
you. Lucky you if you think that. Yeah.
So, but I also would say
>> not everyone can be so fortunate. I
understand.
>> Exactly. But maybe you would say, you
know what, I'm 99% there, but the 1% I
would like, by the way, and this doesn't
need to be like obviously everybody
thinks now about uh sort of performance
and like looks because sports, but like
that's only the start. Yes. Weight loss,
muscle, whatever, but you have hair hair
growth, but you have like
>> you're cutting now you're cutting me to
the
>> No, but sexual appetite. I don't want to
I don't want to do Okay. Like Yeah. You
want to have more sex? You want to feel
more? Do you want to be smarter? By the
way, like you're a journalist. like you
want to maybe read more, maybe read
longer, maybe think more like so I think
and that is sort of what we had at the
very beginning. I think we should be
allowed and not just allow we should
endorse that's what I'm doing with the
enhanced games. Yeah. Um allow humans to
maximize their potential with the health
of science of science because we're
doing that since thousands of years.
It's just like we just feeling a little
bit weird at the moment because it's
it's medical drugs we put in our body
but like
>> and it's this well and it's the scale
and diversity of things, right? So like
if you're offered as an enhancement um
you know caffeine and a few other
substances then you have some sense of
like well I can go online and you know
now I guess I'll go online and ask
Claude right to tell me about the risks
and benefits of caffeine how many cups a
day and so on right but the world you're
in and you know it's a world of yes
medications that are FDA approved but
sometimes they're FDA approved for
particular conditions right or it's the
world just just just that you you could
respond, but it's also the world of the
supplements that are sold without FDA
approval that are legal that they don't
have, let's say, an incredibly intense
scientific grounding. So, you present
people with here are these set of drugs,
these set of supplements, there's
hundreds of them, there's thousands of
them. And people on the one hand might
be sort of baffled by all the choices.
On the other hand, they also might worry
that you Christianmire
um are not able to tell them with
certainty like what are the long-term
risks of this or that right how do you
think about
>> it's the opposite I really okay but like
because like I want to actually get
across the opposite like
>> yes
>> so let's go maybe one step back what I
fear fear is negative but like what if
you look at the fear
like but what I think is not right like
the funny thing with the enhanced games
is
>> we kind of getting attacked a little bit
from both sides. We're going to get
attacked from I expected that from the
IOC but then there is the other side at
the moment which is like let's call it
and I don't want to call out single
people but like looks maxes like there
is so much [__] online. Yeah. So I'm
watching that as a half a scientist.
>> Wait are the looks maxers attacking you?
>> No but like these are the ones who
expected Yeah. who like why didn't they
allow anything like why didn't they put
the the people on crazy stuff and then
let's see if they can fly literally like
so so and what I want what I hope where
the world is going is like the why I
mentioned these looks maxes there is a
clear demand positively I would almost
say it's a cry for help of the consumer
that people want to improve their life
with science and by the way the positive
cry for help or the positive show of
demand are all these GLPs like all the
weight loss drugs like Munjaro or
Zmpeic. By the way, last year they made
more revenues than all the AI companies
together. So, and by the way, more than
50% of the people who using these weight
loss drugs are not using it for what
they clinically meant. They meant for
diabetes and clinically obese people.
I'm on uh a GP1. Yeah. Why? Because it's
outsourced discipline. I'm not
clinically obese hopefully. So,
>> what is the cry for help? You just said
there's a cry for help. is the cry for
>> the cry for help is winning. The the
positive thing is that is like now we
have one category which is the the
weight loss drugs and look like it's
like biggest business. Yeah. And then
you go online in all these looks maxing
things and they debating things and it's
literally I I but I
>> So it's that people it's that people
want the kind of optimization
you get from GLP ones and they want it
in other areas.
>> In other areas. Exactly. They want to
they want to have more muscles. They
want to have more sex. They want to have
more fun when they go out and party,
whatever they want. And now we can
decide as society that we ridicule that.
And what then happens that we have
>> the more fringes, let's say it neutally.
Yeah.
>> People are breaking their jobs.
>> Who recommend very crazy stuff.
>> You you don't recommend jobs to attain
to attain what what you what you have.
So, but what I'm saying is there is this
demand and I want to fill it
scientifically and we have these amazing
agency. The FDA is a great institution.
They really have a very high bar. I can
tell you doing drug development since 28
years like yeah uh it's a very high bar
and my view is let's get stuff a let's
use stuff which has already gone through
that high bar which by the way again I
want to say it again because you
insinuated oh we don't know the risk. We
do know the risk because that is
>> for for to be clear we know we know
risks of things that have passed the FDA
process hopefully. I was also
referencing though just the world of
supplements, you know, herbal cocktails,
these kind of things which I should say
these include things that I myself have
taken not for looks maxing but I had a
period of my life when I had a severe
chronic illness and so I just sort of
wandered in the world of non-FDA
approved stuff. So I have an
appreciation for what it can do for but
we also don't know a lot about what it
does right
>> for some we do and don't and again I
want to be also the trusted source.
>> Let's let's let's get back to
self-improvement. So I I mentioned that
I you know I took some weird supplements
in the I've taken some weird supplements
in the course of my the course of my
life. Um what struck me with those these
were essentially treatment for
infections, right? Things that were
supposed to treat infectious diseases.
It was always my impression that they
they did things but they did things on
the margins. It's been my impression as
an observer of sort of enhancement,
right? It's always seemed to me that
like a lot of this stuff falls into
those categories. It's like, okay, you
take these extra things while you work
out and they make your workouts, you
know, one or two% more efficient and
your bounce back one or two% better and
so on. And that's meaningful, right? But
it seems different from what Ozmpic
does. Ompic is the first time where it's
like it's not like 1% better, it's 10%
better and you don't even have to do
anything else, right? And that that to
me is seems like just a big change in
what sort of yeah how people think about
drugs, pharmaceuticals and sort of
personal enhancement. So first I wonder
if you agree with that. Second I wonder
like I want you to prophesy for a minute
and tell me if you think Ompic is sort
of just the first of many things where
it has that kind of ease of
transformation.
>> 100%. And you hitting the best point
because that I always tell people is
like they are very healthy supplements.
Um as I said we offer that as well but
we always have to say like and it's like
you maybe get 5% whatever but it is like
supplements are like the sort of
freeable ones. They are they're making
you a bit better which is already great
but they are not a wonder drug. By the
way nothing is a wonder drug. I always
predicted that we need to use real
medical drugs who have a very tangible
effect and once that happens once you
take ozic uh and you lose like 15% 20%
of your weight then you're like wow I
want that that's great yeah by the way
you get that let's take a very simple
enhancement drug for men testosterone I
can tell you you should try it out and
then report you suggested that I
>> like I can and I see it also by the way
I'm very like we're not selling anything
uh for men like we have some like which
I don't do myself.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. I want to ask about what you do
yourself.
>> I can tell you with testosterone like it
makes you feel like more than 10 years
younger as a man. Full stop. We can with
medical drugs which are already
available today. We can make a massive
improvement in performance in weight and
appearance similar to the amounts we see
with with OAMIC. And what I predict is
because now kind of the ice is broken
every farmer company is like wow I want
that I want that revenues and now they
saying or understanding what I trying to
say since 28 years is like obviously the
market is much bigger if you have a
total addressable market ideally of 100%
then only for cancer we should always
work on cancer yeah as an industry but
luckily not everybody has cancer and I
always said why don't we additionally to
curing things the bad stuff why don't we
additionally find things two, which more
or less everybody wants. Yeah. And and
and that race is on now. It's it's it's
weight loss is still the number one, but
people are already looking now at muscle
growth beyond testosterone. Yeah.
>> Right. So, you build you take a pill,
you take an injection, and you still
have to exercise, but your muscles
increase
radically without being in the gym every
day.
>> So, one of my private biotic companies
is doing exactly that. We're working on
a drug. Uh it's it's the mechanism is
called AMPK uh activator. You actually
lose weight and you gain muscles. You
still have to train a bit but much less.
Yeah. And then the holy grail would be
you don't train at all. And then
>> that's huge. Yeah.
>> Um
>> so is that fixed? What's what's the
status of hair loss? I've tried not to
pay attention to it. So currently you
can already do a lot with um with um
topical versions of finest write
whatever but like ideally you start them
when it starts. So in your case at
>> No, I'm not.
>> Okay. Sorry.
>> In a hypothetical hypothetical case.
>> Yeah. At the moment you would still need
to if you have lost a lot of hair
already get the transplant and make sure
it doesn't fall out. So we don't have we
don't have the regrowth
>> but there are drugs in development and
actually late stage not from us like
>> which do that is exactly so I give I
would say give it 5 years and there will
be a a regrowth
>> a hair regrowth drug on the market by
the way another huge thing will be sex
yeah actually by the way if you want to
see it like that Viagra was actually the
very first bestselling
we just didn't call it like that but it
is like yeah and then came but now it's
like what's the X like one of my
favorite companies in our portfolio in
our biotech portfolio is a company
called Cadence not listed like um they
work on premature eaculation which
happens to more people man than you
think uh [laughter]
>> sorry [snorts] go on and um I think it's
30 seconds I can't relate [laughter]
so so but what we found out that so we
actually really out to cure that yeah
and the drug we have in late stage is
giving those men affected more but then
we found out in the healthy
>> sorry this is very serious I'm just
>> it's very serious like it's going to be
I tell you we're going to be back and
it's going to be a huge market and by
the way practically so far no big side
effects so that is like sex is a big
thing and then by the way my number one
is like happiness
>> what I'm trying to get across is like we
have some illnesses and that's how the
whole pharma world thinks so far which
are black and white and where it's very
clear
>> having cancer is bad it's not the
standard Curing it means bring you back
to normal and that's it. Like there's no
there's no enhancement. Yeah. The same
having a viral infection, having a
bacterial infection. That's not it's not
normal. Let's cure it. You're back to
normal. But there is so many subjective
things and this is for me is looks,
happiness, sex, intelligence.
>> What do you think women want in this
landscape in terms of like we've been
talking about male pattern baldness and
erectile dysfunction? Like just give me
an example of the female market. But
saying one thing is like I I can give
you examples which which a lot of women
tell me but I don't even want to
generalize because my whole message is
it's up to you and a lot of people think
this is pushing people more in body
conformity. I think in the moment we we
make it easy to achieve I think the
world will go more diverse. So I think
then because like if you
>> well because right now tempor temp
temporarily right there is the
phenomenon of like the you know the
Jenner family who all seem to have ended
up with right the same face right there
are certain there are certain
convergences in looks that you get these
conditions
>> still yes because it's still hard to um
hard to access because it's expensive
because their looks is not medic is not
therapeutic use of drugs their use is
operational yeah which is very expensive
but if that would be available to
everybody. I don't think we all want to
look
>> there would be convergence. No, I
thinking about that a lot because like I
just like I love history and if you go
into history what always the beauty
standard of each time was what was the
hardest to get a lot of the beauty
standards are indirectly
signaling that you have money u because
they are practically what you're
signaling if I'm very trained if I'm
very if I'm thin whatever I have the
time to do that and so in the medieval
ages for example the beauty standard was
a very pale. Why? Because the the the
the peasants had to work outside. So
they were very tanned. So only the rich
ladies
>> could stay behind their castles and be
very pale. So being pale was the
unobtainable
>> and then being on the beach becomes a
thing that rich people do and tan and it
switches.
>> But there's still but there's still a
standard, right? I mean human beings are
mimemetic, right? It see it's just hard
for me.
>> Yes. But what I'm saying is like what
what happens if we making everything
fairly easy? Is that not actually
opening up the window because people are
not seeing it as something unobtainable.
So coming to women though to your
question like first of all sex by the
way it's very unfair. Men at least have
Viagra. Yeah. Uh women has have not
really something. So to so many women
I'm talking to are like hey I want to
feel pleasure and it's always by the way
connected women's health and sort of
well-being. And the number one thing
they're all citing is like menopause
sucks. Yeah. Um and uh we want also
something for sexual pleasure which we
don't have at the moment. Women don't
have um
>> and with menopause does that include
extending fertile years like how I mean
how
>> both like some want that again we have a
a biotic company which is working on
that. Yeah. But it can also be like okay
you're not fertile anymore but you don't
have all the downsides going through
menopause.
>> Right. And how do you get to how do you
get to mass access for this for this
stuff if it is you know it's a
marketplace done bringing it to FDA so
that people don't try sketchy [__]
they're ordering from China. Yeah. And
because they heard it from an influencer
doing the very prop.
>> So no Chinese peptides only all American
peptides.
>> Yes. Because like it's also
>> or European Union peptides. So a a you
need to know the science and then
obviously you need to know that what you
ordered is what you want to have like
and by the way for the peptide market is
a long story because like again there
I'm fairly conservative like I think
like we first of all there are peptides
which are already FDA approved. I'm
actually hoping they're not going
overboard because there's a lot of stuff
on it which I would call interesting. So
I would like to learn more in terms of I
would like to see more science but I
would not put it in my body. Yeah. And
that's where we as enhanced games at
least or enhance want to draw the line.
And that's what I want to message all
the time. Like I want to give people the
freedom because they deserve it. But
freedom only makes sense if you have
knowledge otherwise it's idiocy.
>> So what are you putting in your body?
So the sentence before but my whole
message is it's scientific and you have
to do it with a doctor because what is
right for me even if now I'm 48 even if
a 48-year-old man is listening saying
even for that person meaning he can
maybe take the closest sort of
comparison we're going to we're going to
imagine this this is a you know we're
watching television and this comes this
conversation comes with the you know
immense bar at the bottom of the screen
endless disclaimers but just and you
don't have to Tell me everything. Just
give just give me a sense of everything.
I wouldn't tell you like I'm very like
open book.
>> So testosterone is one thing. Since my
30s, I'm doing TRT. By the way, very
very mild. What I'm doing is I know
exactly where my testosterone level was
at 30 and I'm keeping it there. And by
the way, I don't even think about it,
but when I talk to friends who are like
going to the gym when they're 48 and
they're training and they have sore
muscles, whatever, like for days, I was
like, I don't have that. I'm really
training exactly the same way and it
feels the same way. So then I'm taking
GOP once because I'm kind of stress
eater. Like and by the way, even if I
have good stress, you have a fun day.
Yeah. Uh if I'm busy, I'm like, "Oh,
here's a cookie. There's a cookie."
Yeah. And then I gain weight. Yeah. And
just
>> happens to all of us.
>> But G once switched it off. I haven't
eaten today because I was busy, but now
I don't because like I just like
>> Do you Do you find that they remove any
other non any non-food compulsions? Like
do you feel like they've changed your
personality?
>> It's a good point. Not for me. Yeah. But
again, I come back. That's why I say do
it with a doctor and like so what
observe yourself like and so there is
the side effect people report by the way
sometimes it's a happy side effect
because
>> no no people will say I'm no longer you
know addicted to scrolling social media
on my phone but to pick a hypothetical
unfortunately it doesn't do that for me
I am addicted to that like I trying my
my partner will like it doesn't work for
him it just for me it does what it shall
do it just reduces my craving or my my
stupid like oh I'm eating a cookie so I
have that uh I'm taking Daga which is
hormone like substance um um um I taking
pregnn alolone um I'm taking actually a
lot of things for sleep um because like
also let me say sorry we're jumping but
like
>> we
>> people always want to know for me and
this is exactly what we debating now is
like what's the medications we can take
yeah it all just makes sense if you
cover your basics and the basics are
five things in life for health and sleep
is the number one get your sleep in
order second is social relations super
cheap and super hard at the same time.
Have a great life, enjoy it, have
friends, have family. Third one is no
drugs. You love now, but maybe, but it's
like coming from me, but like I hate
drugs, by the way. The negative version
of it. Yeah. And I think the number one
drug which should not be even allowed is
alcohol. It destroys everything. Alcohol
is scientifically the worst and it's
spiritually a path to hell. That's my
few. Yeah. I've never touched it and
they will never. Yeah. Uh and by the
way, marijuana,
>> I have not touched it. I would not.
Makes you dumb. Yeah. Um, there are
medical use cases, but again, by the
way, also, so everything is also always
a trade-off. If I would have a medical
use case with Mariana help, maybe I
would do it, but I clearly see the side
effects, which is, especially when
you're younger, by the way, it does, if
you do it a lot, reduce a little bit
your intellect for life. Why would I
[__] do that? Like, it's like, yeah.
So, I have not tried any
recreational drug except of coffee.
>> Yeah. And psychedelics, but that's
another topic for we'll get to that in a
sec. So, but everything else I think is
bad. So, don't touch it. No alcohol, no
cigarettes, no smoking,
>> no. So then go to the gym two, three
times a week, do a little bit of cardio,
do a little bit of weight training. Um,
and then food intake like be mindful of
that as well because we like talking
always about the risks of drug and at
the same time people are like
>> sugar is super bad for you like uh so
have a Mediterranean diet. So these are
the five basics and they I would say
account for 70 or 80% of your
well-being, aging, whatever. And if you
cover those basics then actually
enhancements add on. That's just like
the concept like so I do a lot of
supplements actually for sleep to
improve that. I do one medical drug for
sleep which is called Q vivic that
regulates the wake uh the wake sleep
mechanism. So at the moment you have
orexin drugs which promote sleep like
this said Qivic. And the great thing is
they give you more deep sleep. That's
what you really want. you need core,
right?
>> And interestingly in older people, they
it might actually reduce the risk for
dementia and Alzheimer, which is always
a theory I believed in is that older
people unfortunately get less and less
deep sleep in average. So it was always
a hypothesis I was looking at is like,
oh, if we give people more deep sleep,
could that be prevented? And it seems to
be. So I'm taking that h what did I
forget you?
>> Well, just well then just take you
mentioned Alzheimer's. and take take me
into the longevity debate and how you
think about that, right? Because
as you know, just as prior to Osmpic, I
had the sense that you [snorts] know,
lots of interventions made a difference
on the margins and then OMIC comes along
and seems to make a really big
difference. My impression of all of the
debates about longevity and anti-aging
stuff at this moment is that people are
doing, you know, 17 different
supplements and avoiding direct sunlight
and so on and in the end maybe it's
going to add, you know, 13 months to
their average lifespan or something.
Now, may maybe that's wrong, but that's
my impression. Do you have an
expectation that you are doing or will
be doing things that will actually add
meaningfully to what your lifespan would
be even if you were healthy? Right? Yes.
Okay. So,
>> so, so first of all, you're right at the
moment there is nothing you can take
so that the in average again there could
always be the outlier statistics but
like there is nothing which would make
people live 10 years longer right
>> yeah but it's going to come so at the
moment give you a different view like
the two things a let's start like
already aging better having the same so
we need to we need to dissect life
expectancy so how long do we live and
then quality of life. So we have already
that's what we just talked about the
quality of life I think can be easily
already now for every person on the
planet improved like 10 years plus and
then at the same time I think now in the
future like in the next 10 years we're
going to see breakthroughs also in life
expectancy so try to be alive yeah by
the way the number one
>> if you want if you want if you want the
right and
>> one thing maybe which is again just a
practical thing because it's not a
medication. The number one thing at the
moment is checkups. I'm doing uh a blood
cancer screening, you know, that you get
your blood drawn and like Yeah, I'm
doing every 3 months. I may be a little
bit obsessive.
>> That's a little bit I mean I I did just
I did just get a colonoscopy. So I feel
virtuous. I feel virtuous for that, but
I Yeah, I am not
>> I'm not good at keeping up with checkups
for reasons that I want to get into at
the end. But now I want to ask about
psychedelics. Where does the mind and
consciousness alteration fit into this
>> in so many ways? Like the first of all,
first of all, I hopefully I get it
across that I really think this was the
beginning of our debate. Like I think
life is awesome. Yeah, it's exciting.
>> We're not having a debate.
>> No, this is this is I
>> I know. But I I just want to say and
that's where my point comes. But I I
realized somewhere I had these luck
literally since I'm alive and I really
really credit my parents. I'm coming
from these very small farm village like
I I'm always fairly happy. It doesn't
mean that I have bad days but like my
baseline is happy and someone I realized
that is not normal and it's I think it's
very sad. Life is awesome but obviously
you need to be happy to enjoy it and
healthy but like we covered the health
part but life without happiness is not
not good like sort of so that's why the
baseline of psychedelics is like they
have the potential to really massively
massively improve the mental health of
people who have a a medical issue which
is a lot again from
>> meaning depression
>> depression anxiety addiction
>> but but in this terrain just to be clear
we're not in the realm of things that
are all FDA approved D right this is
>> yes and no
>> because the amazing thing is like so I'm
saying that since 10 years
>> but I always had to add we going to
prove that out so I I started two
companies a Thai and Compass both are
listed uh both companies together raised
more than $1.5 billion um I put in 100
million of my own capital more than uh
and now we're there so compass has
released phase three data which is the
last final stage
>> for which
>> for dep treatment resistant depression
But then they have
>> with which with which psychedelic?
>> Uh this sorry compass is psilocybin.
>> Okay.
>> Which is the active ingredient in magic
mushrooms. And then a Thai is doing all
the other psychedelics. Um we just had
phase 2b data for 5 mmt which was maybe
the best data set in neuroscience since
like 30 years. It's amazing.
>> For which sorry
>> 5 ot which is another psychedelic. So
they have several psychedelics.
>> Is that equivalent to the DMT that is in
like Iawaska? What's the what's the
connection?
>> So, it's a a very colloally said it's a
stronger version. It's a different
molecule. It's in the same family.
>> Okay. It's in the same family.
>> We also do DMT. So, a tai is doing 5
Modo DMT which is actually what people
call colloquially the toad thing like if
you have heard it. Yeah. Then you have
we do as a Thai we do DMT which is
colloquially what you take when you do.
But you can do DMT without doing
>> and actually we do it ble which is then
a much shorter trip because I think if
you do it medically in the medical
system the shorter the better because I
have to add for psychedelics uh is I
believe psychedelics should be not only
medically approved but they only should
be taken with a clinician together. So
it's a it's a it's a narrower approval
like for example what we discussed so
far are prescription drugs you have to
go to a doctor consult but then
testosterone you can take home or get an
injection or whatever but like
psychedelics my vision and also where we
agree because the FDA has the same
vision is they should be used only with
a clinician together because the the
session can be very intense.
I've heard I've heard that
>> and you should do it with somebody who's
who's sort of educated and that's how it
unfolds the biggest um the therapy
effect but like but long story short
like uh psychedelics
are about to be approved you're going to
see psilocybin active ingredient magic
mushrooms you can take it with your
doctor next year it's going to happen
now there was just a presidential order
which kind of just said stated the
obvious because it wasn't needed
actually a different topic um and and
All the other psychedelics we're
developing DMT 5, DMT, Ibukane, a new
version of MDMMA are going to come I
would say over the next
>> 3 to 5 years to market
>> and which are the ones that you have
taken yourself or that you take now.
>> So I do regularly psilocybin which is
the active ingredient imaging mushrooms
regularly means I do it once maximum
twice a year with a therapist together
in a country where it's already legal.
So I do it the proper way how it will be
>> in the United States hopefully next
year, end of this year, next year. So um
I I have done 5 MOD DMT. Uh I've done
DMT. I've actually done our entire
pipeline except of fibergl.
>> All right. So what what it what happens
to you when you do psilocybin?
>> So um w
that's always the most complicated
question.
>> Yes. Yes. Well, I'm going to ask about
DMT too, but let I want to ask about
both. as someone who has never taken
either and finds the literature on them
very interesting.
>> Can I give you two answers? I give you
the personal one second. I give you the
medical one and I try to make it
simplified medical one. All the
psychedelics one of the big effects is
we have a part of your of our brain
where our consciousness
seems to be created at least our sense
of ego conscious is already a tricky
term because that's what I'm doing is
like I'm going through a mindfield of
tricky terms of the boundaries of sense
of self. Yeah. And ego. Yeah. Ego in a
not not oh somebody has a big ego but
like ego in like your sense of self.
>> And that uh default mode network
>> is reduced to really shut down.
And the initial reaction of people is oh
who am I when my ego is gone? And then
the interesting answer is and they can
try to make it very neutral and I can
give you my Christian answer because I'm
personally very spiritual religious
which is I want to make a clear divide.
I can give you and that's the great
thing with psychedelics. We can go
through FDA and don't need to use the
word God and soul and all of that
because we show
>> this is this is a safe space for you.
No, I like it. I'm just always making it
clear what I there is certain things we
know about psychedelics. And the great
thing is we know
>> that much that is so easily going to be
FDA approved because by the way side
note also the side effect profile is
super benign like yeah people have a
headache, vomiting there. There are some
people have a higher heart rate but it's
all like I would say again I don't want
to I don't want to be too like easygoing
because everything has side effects and
everything is like a trade-off. If you
drink coffee your body will display some
side effects. you just know them. But
like I would say what we've shown is
like they have they have mild side
effects,
>> right?
>> Yeah. But but back to the feeling
itself. So you have a sense your sense
of ego and self
>> weakens
>> and then something else is there. Yeah.
And you can call it your
subconsciousness, you can call it your
soul, your inner voice, whatever. But so
you your your your your
brain or your head is not empty so to
say. And that is the moment which allows
you to work through whatever the reason
for your mental health issue is. For me
again it's more like my personal
opinion. I want to because I'm chairman
also of a biotech company publicly but
like my personal opinion is like there
are certain root causes
is my belief for for psychedelic sorry
for mental health issues like trauma is
a very sort of wildly talked about but
there's also others like loss of
connections grieving. Yeah. Um just like
getting obsessed with negativity in your
life and depending what the root cause
is. My subjective answer is the beauty
of all psychedelics is they show you the
right answer or the right antidote
to whatever your root cause is. I give
you two examples like if people are and
there's so many by the way their root
cause is the simplest one and the most
common one is they don't even know what
makes them happy because we're living in
a world where we don't embrace that. We
don't allow people to explore and
communicate and express. And that is one
of the biggest group of patients I see
throughout all psychedelics. They go in
a psychedelic trip and they come out and
they're like, I know now what I want and
that I deserve it and I should do it.
>> But you're doing this not all the time
but frequently, right? So are you sort
of
>> once or twice a year
resetting and figuring out like how your
your true self is changing? Like what
what is the maintenance effect? So the
maintenance is by the way let's start
with my first trip. So the great thing
with me was that's why for me it was
very confirmatory. So I went into that
and I came out of it was like okay the
first me the only two thing why I did
this whole pre thing because like it
sounds so bal like everything I'm
telling people about how psychedelics
work and what psychedelics teach you you
can read a deep chopra book by the way
you can talk to your parents you can
also read the bible like we have all
these things out there which show us how
to lead a good happy life in Germany
just say it goes in the right ear and
goes out the left ear meaning you don't
listen to a truly and on psychedelics is
because your ego is reduced. It's like
you experience these experience these
kind of truth at a very very deep
absolute level and you come out of it
and you have the courage to live live
according to it. So in my case though it
was very confirmatory.
>> What was the revelation of your first
trip?
>> Very simple. I'm doing exactly what I
love. I'm blessed like I structure by
the way and why because I always
structured my life. Why would I do
anything different? I don't even
understand it how people can do things
they don't love because then don't do
it. Yeah. And now people say Christian
is very fortunate because he's very
successful. No, I decided that very
early and then I became successful
because I'm very sure about that. And
the second was though and it's so
cheesy. It's all about love. Like it's
like yeah, you can have a lot of money.
It's in my case it's like I like to
build companies. So the message was like
you you know do that
>> right? But make sure that you have
enough time for your parents because if
life goes as normal, they're going to be
gone before me and I have a great
relationship to that and I'm so
grateful. So I spend more time since
then with my parents. Like
>> make enough time like it's so simple. So
people might say, "Okay, I could have
told you that without a psychedelic
trip, but I want to really get across
>> your experiences on that deep level that
you're like, "Wow, that's it.
[music]
So with DMT,
right, which is associated with iawasa,
which is a drug that has a whole sort of
shamanic culture that's grown up around
it. My understanding and this is I'm
sure a crude generalization is that
magic mushrooms things like them right
induce some version of this sense of
dissolution of self oneness with the
universe self-nowledge and so on DMT
Iasa gives you a more extreme experience
where it feels like you are entering a
different different levels of reality
encountering
other entities beings people talk about
angels people talk about the machine
elves which people listening can google
if they're if they're interested in um
and yeah just have just have a sense
that's more like they are leaving this
plane and entering another plane I'm
curious first is that your experience
and second there's a lot of people who
have what you might call kind of hellish
experiences right and in especially in
that like that they're plunged into a
sort of purgatorial landscape or they
feel like they're cut off from God and
reality and so on. Um what's what is
that is my reading accurate basically?
Yes and no because there's many points
in it which which all we need to go
dissect because it's many things like so
first of all let's stay with DMT like so
there is when people drink DMT
>> and that's what it's called I was yeah
it's a very very different uh sort of
experience it's up to 8 hours whatever
when I say we do DMT we do it bal so
it's only in your cheek in your cheek it
could be also intraasal is anything
transmucosal
um then it's a much faster experience.
It's from from clinical start to end
round about 2 hours and it's very
different from Iwasa. So while it's the
same ingredient you're saying like so
Oscar is is very different. Um
>> what is that experience how is that
experience different from magic
mushrooms?
So that's the second answer is by the
way a lot of people who make the the
differentiation you just made and say oh
under DMT
Iwasa so oral as a drinking version or
transmos or 5m DMT you see entities you
go through literally another plane of
existence if you want to say it like
that or perceived
>> and and mushrooms is more gentle
>> most of them have done mushrooms
recreationally so they take fairly
little so I always ask people when you
had this experience were you able to
walk and speak properly. Most people
say, "Ah, kind of. I was on a beach. I
was like, "Hey, it was a great by the
way. Great for you. I did it on a beach
like in a country where it's legal, but
it's a mild dose." Yeah. So, the therapy
dose is actually they're much closer
together. So, in the therapeutic dose of
psilocybin, people also have a very
spiritual experience. So they nuance is
different but like they again they much
closer together when what you compared
now a very strong
>> DMT dose to a very recreational
psilocybin dose
>> but tell me tell me what h like just
tell me what happens like what what is
it so if you take the therapeutic dose
of magic mushrooms or you're taking this
more condensed dose of DMT
do you feel like you're on another plane
of existence
>> so let's just like for the for the sake
of compliance like let's say we're
leaving science now because science is
like Yeah. So we coming now to my
personal opinion. Yeah. So I do believe
that psychedelics are opening up the
opening up our again I'm only struggling
because like I know when I use religious
terms then maybe religion is the one
thing we don't think a lot about it but
it's very loaded. If I use the word God
or soul, everybody has a few and it's
not necessarily what I want to say with
it. I just gave that also a disclaimer.
So, so but like I do think psychedelics,
>> but it's what I want to hear about.
>> Yeah. No, no. And I'm happy to hear just
trying to make it most accurate and not
repel people.
>> Well, and you you just the disclaimer
would be you think people will have
experiences and get these results even
if they think and are sure that it's all
happening just inside their heads,
right?
>> Yes. That will be proven. But when I
read the the what we also ask like the
personal questionnaires whatever of the
patients this is all a very spiritual
experience. Some people by the way might
not call it like that. I have a friend
>> uh who's actually big shout out because
he was my first uh sort of shaman like
in my very first trip. He's very very he
would call himself although he does
psychedelics really an atheist but then
when I talk to him he's like you're not
an atheist like just don't like the word
you're like religious like you believe
in something bigger like I think there
is no real atheist by the way or very
very little and I I almost would claim
like you cannot be a real atheist after
you took psychedelics because everybody
comes out and has these let's call it
spiritual for now religious very deep
experience that there is more
>> and there's no I mean there's data on
this as I understand it that at least
with what I've read about DMT, it is
similar to the data on near-death
experiences where you have a substantial
number of people where they do a study
and they say they go in, are you an
atheist or materialist and they say yes
going in and there is not not with
everyone, maybe not with your friend,
right? But there is often this sort of
change of metaphysical perspective,
right?
>> He also he also has it, right? He just
doesn't want to say it. Yeah.
>> But that is what people have like they
have a very deep spiritual experience
like some people meet entities. Do I
personally believe? Yes. Yeah. Because
I'm spiritual religious like I believe
in
>> Have you met entities?
>> Yes.
>> Tell me tell me about especially my god
like every single time.
>> So tell me what that was like.
>> It's unescribable because that is the
No, by the way suddenly if you I'm
>> sir this is a podcast. Everything is
describable.
>> Yes I'm trying. I just the word that it
is unescribable because that is the
nature of God. Like what I what
>> aphatic theology which is where the the
term for when human concepts fail. Exact
100% like you go what the thing is like
so my guess by the way obviously we have
to bring it across in a podcast and you
can say you don't want to answer have
you done it?
>> No.
>> So
>> no and I'll and I'll tell you why in a
second.
>> And so why I'm asking is like so that's
you're actually good counterpart because
I'm trying to explain it to somebody
because like otherwise people
immediately like I know what you mean
because like everybody has the same
experience but it's so it's it's
practically like you read them the Bible
where it's like you can't make a picture
of God. You it is like that God is
so much bigger. Yeah. And so much out of
our comprehension we have in this
incarnation. I also believe we have an
eternal soul. I believe we're going to
go forever. And and it's just so far out
of our comprehension. But on
psychedelics, you're you're you're going
on a state of consciousness which allows
you a I would say to comprehend the
nature and let's maybe use the divine.
and to communicate with it. So, and it
was the most loving
best experience I ever had. By the way,
not always fun. I can tell you the
hardest like because people I want to
bad trip. Yeah. What you said the
hellish ones. Yeah.
>> Right. And the and and people report
entities that are dark darker. So, so I
think I think a majority of what people
would call let's use the word bad trip
is because they not prepared for it. So
I can give you very sort of where I
witnessed very hard story but like they
with a very positive ending and they
were good because somebody was sitting
next to them and guiding them. If that
happens to you at a festival, you might
find it was the worst experience you
ever had because you like and it sounds
so simple but I tell you it's
psychedelics with set and setting the
way sort of a how you are
that you know you save like and you
expecting it to a certain degree and
that you have somebody next to you is so
so that is that is
>> but but you don't but then you don't
really think though that like to the
extent that you you actually believe
that this opens doors. You're not just
locked into your head having this
experience. You're opening a door to the
infinite. You don't think that it's
possible to open that door and have
something dangerous waiting on the other
side.
>> That is one of the best questions
because I never had it in a podcast.
Yeah. So,
>> well, this is the special thing about
about interesting times.
>> So, I'm actually I believe and it's by
the way maybe the one question I ask
every religious leader I'm meeting. It's
like how how do you make sure if you're
on the religious side of it, again, this
is not science. This is not a tie like
is like how do you make sure that you're
meeting God and not sort of a misleading
entity.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. If you want to very simplify it.
>> I want to I have some concerns about the
misleading entity. Yes.
>> I'm thinking about that by the way an
incredible amount because like I'm again
that's
>> but you you don't think just to be you
don't feel like you've met a misleading
entity. So, and the reason is I think
how do I phrase it? Like again, this all
sounds cheesy for the ones who want to
make fun of it, but like I do believe
that ultimately not just life is good,
but God is good.
>> And if you go and have a sincere
problem which you're bringing towards
God,
>> then he, she, it will always answer.
That is my my deep sort of religious
belief that that these psychedelics are
meant
to open up that. So God gave it to us
for a reason. And because God again
personally believe because God gave it
to us psychedelics, he wants us to
discover him in that way. If you're
ready for it, that is my spiritual
answer. But this is why it's so
important to go into it with exactly
that intention. This is why if I go back
and maybe not maybe if the right answer
to your question is also to look how
have others done it. All religions
Christianity who used a lot of
psychedelics. Yeah. Um,
>> that's a se that's a separate podcast
conversation, but we'll we'll let the
we'll let the claim hang. religions like
whatever they all all the ones who still
out now like the the nature religions in
the Amazon whatever they all make sure
>> that you go into it
with that sort of intention
and preparation
and then I think the answer is like if
you I think what's the quote in the
Bible like if you're if you if you ask
God for something he will always answer
but if you do it in uh in a
if if you kind of ignore the power of
these substances and if you do it in a
non-intentional setting, I think you can
accidentally
meet other entities. But like I cannot
go with that argument to the FDA and say
that's my but
>> they won't listen to this podcast, don't
worry.
>> No, they do. Like the good thing is I
can come to the same conclusion with
science and like a lot of people say I'm
a hypocrite because again because I'm
trying to stay in the middle lane. Yeah.
I I deeply believe these very powerful
substances should be available. But I
don't believe at all and especially for
psychedelics that they should be sold in
a in a in a in a Mariana shop because it
can go terribly wrong and I can't give
you the scientific answer why answer why
it can go wrong because if you uncover a
trauma and you're whatever then it can
make it worse and I can give you the
religious answer that if you go into it
without um the the
preparation so but if you go into it
>> and you you are going it with a pure
heart you know what I mean It's very and
I'm struggling and also not to speak but
like if you're going in it like with a
good intention and if the intention is
to solve your problem I think God will
be there because he gave us these
substances. That is my personal
religious belief.
>> Okay. I really appreciate you answering
me directly and um I want to just to
just to sort of bring us to the end. I
want to sort of [snorts] I guess offer
my own Christian reasons for skepticism
about these substances that I think
connect to some reasons for skepticism
about sort of the quest for greater
human potential overall. You mentioned
earlier, you said something like, you
know, the message that God is love. you
know, it's there in the Bible and it's
there in Deepac Chopra, right? And it's
there in Oprah Winfrey and so on.
[gasps]
I agree with that. But I I think that
there I think that there's a lot of sort
of spiritual [snorts] thought and
practice nowadays that sort of starts
with the assumption that if you find it
in the depths of your soul, it's
probably basically good. And I feel like
Christianity starts from a somewhat
different perspective and says the depth
of your soul is also divided. Human
beings are divided. We have an angelic
side and we have a fallen, right? We
have a fallen side. But then what does
this mean? Right, for like in in his in
his encyclical that I that I started
with and I know you haven't read it. You
don't have to read you don't have to
have read it to respond to this, right?
But the pope says something basically
like you know there are certain kinds of
suffering certain kinds of experiences
embodied experiences experiences of
difficulty heartbreak sorrow disease
death itself right that human beings are
supposed to go through and again I
should say I've had I've had Christian
friends who have had conversion
experiences based on psychedelics so I'm
not denying that they can have positive
effects but as I like consistent
practice of a culture you're stepping
outside, right? You're sort of leaving
the trials of the flesh behind. And then
in the same way, everything else that
you have talked so eloquently about,
right, is a kind of like, you know, it
sort of it's like we are we are we are
sort of escaping it, the suffering, the
things we're supposed to go through.
We're we're we're, you know, we're
maxing out, right? And I just worry
about like human vanity, right? Like
isn't vanity a problem here? Isn't ego a
problem here that you don't necessarily
escape just by getting to the depth of
yourself? Anyway, that's a ramble. Just
tell me tell me give me give me a
response
>> first and I always wanted to talk about
it because like there's two answers like
the on the let's come to psychedelics
and say on the enhancement side on the
physical enhance on the physical side.
>> Yeah. Actually, I thought about it
because by the way, I'm deeply religious
like or spiritual. Again, I I only I
want to say spiritual because I'm I'm
I'm Christian, but like I I kind of
think
>> you have some heterodox ideas
>> and I coming I'm coming to the Catholic
Church in a second and especially not to
this encyclical because I haven't read
it but like to the I what's missing
because like I think what all religions
did by the way that would be the
separate podcast
>> one sentence like and I doing a lot of
research there and financing a lot of
research most religions are built on
psychedelics and what psychedelics tell
you and I can see it by the way once you
have a psychedelic experience I read the
entire Bible. Yeah, I read Quran like
because I'm interested in it. And once
you read it with the eye of uh of having
done psychedelics, you clearly see where
the psychedelic influence is.
>> But [laughter]
wait a second. No, no, I can't I can't
let that go. Wait, but couldn't that
just be that psychedelics
give you through a drug a spiritual
experience that people in the Bible or
the Quran or wherever else are getting
direct from God? Why does it have to be
that they're like I agree with great no
hopefully we have a little bit more time
because I love this so the discussion
because for example we I financed a very
important I think very good um study
completely different thing because I
believe somewhere we're going to use
psychedelics for peace negotiations
totally because I think one sentence
because it's such an important topic is
like uh one of the things and we showed
that is like in in the all these
conflicts in Israel and Palestine and
Rwanda whatever is they dehumanizing the
other side. So when I talk to
politicians at the moment, most of them
are like ah they manipulate me. So what
we shown with what we did, we had a
group of Palestinians and a group of
Jews trip together and they all went in
and were like, "Oh, do I come out and
going to give the land away?" That was
the manipulative worry they had. What
actually happened, which is much more
beautiful, I think they came out and
said, "It's such a complicated dis
debate. I want to live here but I for
the first time see that the other person
is a human with a family with very basic
he's like me and they just want to live
and make a good life for their family
and I want to find a solution they
didn't find the solution but I think it
was a great answer because it was not
compelling them both sides to leave the
land but it gave them the understanding
that there's a human on the other side
which if you read it you're like what
did they think before
>> all right but let's let's stay this is
this is good though this will sharpen My
question in the New Testament, right,
Jesus does want people to have a direct
relationship to God, to pray, to call
God father, right? To, you know, there's
clearly a strong thread of mystical
experience running through the whole New
Testament, right? But how shall I put
this? Jesus is not human maxing, right?
Like Jesus is incredibly focused on
everything he's talking about is giving
up your body for other people. This is
something I fail at, by the way. I'm not
like holding myself up as a paragon of
this, but you're giving your possessions
away, but you're also sort of giving of
your physical form. And I think the
worry whether it's the pope or me
sitting here talking to you now, right,
is that there's a combination of maxing
of the body and sort of spiritual escape
that risks getting away from that
fundamental obligation. That's my
question. Don't we risk getting away
from fundamental obligations? Like just
in your examples, right? I've got a lot
of kids. if I don't have time [laughter]
to do certain maxing things or even to
think about certain maxing things
>> and I'm not sure that's a bad thing. So
first of all I there's two different
answers by the way for psychedelics
let's call it mindmaxing if you want to
call it and for the the so I gave you
the answers psychedelics and by the way
to finish that like I think by the way I
also want to say everything I just said
come back to the to your credit like
everything I just said you can actually
achieve without psychedelics and by the
way I'm not the one who says hey this is
the only way religions have all
developed
>> various techniques meditation prayer
whatever my critique is and that is for
example my biggest critique I would say
as a Catholic. Yeah. Is like they traded
away the mystical experience and the
direct relationship to God and also
helping people to achieve that even
without psychedelics. Yeah. I want
people to have that because I think it's
that is the core of of of having a
relationship with God and they traded
that away for power and organization.
Yeah. and they made themselves very
hollow and I think that is so yes it's
important that the pope says something
about AI but I don't think we need the
pope for that I want the pope to give
much deeper answers much more spiritual
answers on the condition of being human
and I think they lost it and it's sad
because I think people deeply deeply
need that and long for it especially in
a world which is changing
>> again coming back to we need religion
deep
okay so that's that's the side maxing
side. Now talk about the body maxing and
whether am I doing something wrong. I I
maybe by letting myself get a little bit
fat and ignoring my lost hair in the but
in the service of like trying to be a
good journalist and a good husband and
father and not have that like be in my
mind all the time.
>> Okay. I'm giving you a personal answer.
You ask in terms of like I want a
personal answer. So you have children.
How many?
>> Yes, I have five children.
>> So you have five children. How old? They
are anywhere from 15 to two.
>> So you want to be there as long as you
can.
>> So you're tiny bit overweight. Yeah. Is
putting a toll on you. It's No, it's
storing inflammation. It's increasing
your risk for a cardiovascular disease
and you have a responsibility I believe
for the kids you put in this world to be
there in a healthy state
>> for them because I believe in family
like Yeah. So, so it's kind of people
want to talk
>> but maybe not the hair I can leave the
hair alone
>> but if it makes you a happier dad the
question is that why I'm said before
like it's not that I'm saying we all
should do that what I think there are
people who want if they do X it makes
them happy and I want them to be happy
because only if you are happy you can
make other people happy if you're
miserable you're going to make other
people miserable so be happy yeah have a
connection with God and be healthy
because that is kind
the basis and then you can be the good
force in life to whoever you want to be
there to your children to your wife to
your readers whatever so so it's not a
conflict people always want to talk up
that conflict and oh make it like
egocentric whatever not at all it's like
>> but it's a but it is you you would admit
it's a conflict for some people it's why
I struggle with it myself that there is
there there is a balance between healing
and seeking health which I Christians,
people who believe in God are absolutely
required to do. But but then there's
also the perils of vanity, narcissism,
and egoentrism. Um that I think, you
know, whatever psychedelics may or may
not do are sort of carried in the train
of personal improvement.
>> It's like I I hear you again and I think
if if some people become narcissistic or
very vain, then it's a treatable issue
itself and then I would say go to
psychedelics. But I don't think that
people who just want to be the best
version of themselves
that they should be called like that. I
give you two. So if you're because like
I never had a podcast where the other
side was also Christian like believer
like so I guess you believe the term
child of God is is an accurate one. Are
we God's children? So
>> in yes with some theological debate
behind it but yes
>> but I think sometimes by the way that
the theological intellectual debate is
the wrong one. I think maybe it's the
real one like maybe it's maybe you
should take things more literally. So I
deeply believe because I was thinking
why do I like biotech so much and why do
why not even me like forget about me why
are we humans so curious? Why are why do
we want to invent? There is this drive
like we we literally like like zoom out
like we are a very like uh curious
adventurous innovating species. We have
this drive to do that.
>> I actually my personal answer is because
that is the divine
>> in us the the part of God like if God is
a very
creating
has a very creating nature which we
definitely as Christians would say he
does because he created the universe and
us whatever isn't it that we have that
spark in us and we want to create on a
much smaller level but it's like my it's
like children imitating you like yeah
and and I think trying to optimize
things but by the way trying to do any
science whatever is actually is the
divine spark in us and that's why I
think it's good it's inherently good if
trying to, as I said, become the best
version of ourselves. And I don't think
there is anything bad in science helping
us do that.
>> I'm very [music] hopeful that this has
been the best version, the best possible
version of this podcast. So, Christian
Anger Meer, thank you so much for
joining me. [music]
>> Thank you. It was amazing.
[music]